This health plan literally doubles your
Sum Insured from day one. No claims needed,
no waiting. Sounds like clickbait, but it's not.
That's exactly what HDFC ERGO Optima Secure does.
But hang on, that's just the headline feature.
Behind the scenes, this plan is packed with other
benefits from unlimited doctor visits in select
cities to chronic disease support to full-blown
IVF coverage under a parenthood add-on. So, in
this video, we're doing a deep dive into the
HDFC Ergo Optima Secure Plan, one of the most
comprehensive health insurance products in the
market today. We're going to cover everything,
features, benefits, waiting periods, premiums,
discounts, optional add-ons, and even quirks
that you should know before buying. This is one
of those plans that deserves your attention. I'm
Shashank. You're watching DITTO Insurance. And if
you want a free consultation regarding health
or term insurance from DITTO's IRDAI certified
advisors, then book a free call. The link is in
the description. Alright, let's start. First,
let's see who's behind this plan. HDFC Ergo
General Insurance is a joint venture between
HDFC Limited and Germany's Ergo International AG,
which is part of the Munich AR group. In 2020,
they absorbed HDFC ERGO Health, formerly known
as Apollo Munich, which means this plan inherits
a strong claims legacy and customer base. The
numbers CSR- 98% ICR- 86% , complaint volume
just 7 per 10,000 claims and network hospitals
over 13,000 and one of the largest in India.
So from a brand trust and performance standpoint
this one's rock solid entry age and eligibility
pretty flexible. Adults can join from age 18 with
no upper age limit which means even 99 year olds
can be covered. Kids are allowed from 91 days to
25 years and after that they are given individual
plans without losing continuity benefits. The
plan offers lifelong renewability which means
once you're in you're covered for life as long as
premiums are paid. Sum Insured options choose from
5 lakh all the way up to 2 crores with options
like 10 lakh, 15 lakh, 25 lakh, 50 lakh and 1
crore in between. Policy terms are also available
at one, two or three years and you can buy it as
an individual or a floater policy for your family.
Okay, now let's get to the actual feature sets.
Co-Payment, none. Disease wise sub-limits,
nope. Room rent restrictions, zero. Pre and
post hospitalization 60 and 180 days respectively.
Daycare procedures and modern treatments covered
up to the full sum insured. Domiciliary and AYUSH
also covered up to full Sum Insured. Preventive
health check-ups reimbursed annually after the
first year. The limit depends on your cover. For
example, 2,000 rupees per year for a 10 lakh
insured and up to 15,000 rupees for a 1 or 2
crore policy. Now, here's what sets Optima Secure
apart. The secure benefit. From day one, your base
cover is doubled. Now, let's say you buy a 10 lakh
rupee plan. Your cover instantly becomes 20 lakhs.
You don't need to wait for no claim bonuses. It
just starts off 2x. For a plan designed to protect
families from rising medical inflation, this
one is a killer feature. Then comes the restore
benefit. Your cover gets refilled 100% once per
year for any illnesses after it's been partially
or fully used. Not restricted to unrelated
illnesses, which is usually a pain point in
many other plans. Now, let's talk about the plus
benefit. Whether you claim or not, your base cover
increases by 50% every year up to a maximum 100%
cap. So in 2 years, your 10 lakh cover can become
20 lakh even without secure doubling. Put that
together and you have a 10 lakh base cover that
could become 40 lakhs within 2 years. No tricks,
no hidden caps. Optima Secure also has a protect
benefit wherein it covers non-medical items
like gloves, masks, syringes, things usually
not reimbursed in most plans. Now this is a huge
plus because these often account for 10 to 15%
of a hospital bill. Ambulance covered both road
and air. Road ambulance is covered up to some
insured. Air ambulance is capped at 5 lakh rupees
per year. Now let's talk about waiting periods.
It has a standard 30-day initial waiting period.
Only accidents are covered from day one. 2 Year
for specific illnesses like cataract, hernia,
joint replacements, etc. 3 years for pre-existing
conditions. And yes, the list of specific
conditions is long but standard. Now, let's
talk about some add-ons. Now, this is where things
get really interesting. The first is unlimited
restore. It takes your 1x restore and turns into
unlimited restores in a year. Game changer if
multiple hospitalizations occur. Second one is
the aggregate deductible. You pick a deductible
amount, say 3 lakh rupees. You pay for a claim
up to that and after that the policy kicks in. In
exchange, you get a major premium discount. Third
is the Optima Well-Being unlimited doctor visits,
free home sample collection, wellness sessions,
and up to 50% off on tests and medications. Well,
this is only available in select cities, mostly
metros and tier ones. There's also a parenthood
rider for women aged 18 plus. It offers maternity
cover up to two deliveries or two terminations,
IVF up to two cycles, embryo freezing, and 180
days prenatal and postnatal care. Premium start
at 14,000 plus GST but no newborn baby BB coverage
included. Now this is important to note. The next
is the limitless add-on. This removes some insured
cap for one or two lifetime claims. Example,
if you have 50 lakh rupee cover and pick this
add-on, you can make two unlimited value claims in
that lifetime. Now there's also a new rider called
ABCD chronic care. This cuts the waiting period
for diabetes, BP cholesterol, asthma to just 30
days. This is a massive relief for folks with
lifestyle conditions. Seventh is hospital cash.
Fixed per day cash benefit is given that is 1 to
2,000 rupees for every 24-hour hospitalization.
Now there are multiple discounts available. So
let's take a look at that. 5% online discount,
5% employee discount for HDFC or Munich A group.
2.5% loyalty discount for existing retail policy
holders. 10% for family discount on individual
cover for two plus family members, 7.5% for 2-year
policies, 10% for three-year plans, combined cap
20% max. Now, let's talk premiums and these are
inclusive GST plus online discount. All right,
the premium chart is on your screen right
now. It will give you the different covers,
the different ages for someone living in Delhi.
How much would HDFC go Optima Secure cost?
I'll pause here. You can take some time to look
at the premiums. All right. As you can see,
the premiums are on the premium side, but the
features justify it. Now, what's our final take?
If you're looking for a plan that's trusted, well
established, and has a clean claim track record,
offers 2x coverage from day one, includes benefits
like restore bonus, no consumables, and flexible
add-ons, built to tackle rising medical inflation,
then this is one of the best plans out there. Yes,
it does cost a bit more, but for that
price, you get peace of mind, reliability,
and coverage that works when you actually need
it. This is a plan made for people who don't want
surprises during claims. And we mean that. And as
always, if you want to compare Optima Secure with
other top plans or just want help understanding
if it fits your needs, book a free call with
Ditto. We'll help you evaluate it, explain
everything, and even help during claims. The
link is in the description. So folks, like this
video if you found this helpful. Share it with
someone buying health insurance soon. And I'll
see you in the next one. Happy insurance hunting.